---
title: plot
tags:
keywords:
last_updated: May 4, 2020
summary: "Plot data and fit, prediction bounds, outliers, and residuals."
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
permalink: mydoc_plot.html
folder: mydoc
---
## Syntax
`plot(fresult)`<br>
`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata)`<br>
`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,'s')`<br>
`plot(fresult,'s1',xdata,ydata,'s2')`<br>
`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,outliers)`<br>
`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,outliers,'s')`<br>
`plot(...,'ptype1','ptype2',...)`<br>
`plot(...,'ptype1','ptype2',...,conflev)`<br>
`h = plot(...)`

where

|`fresult`|A fit result object|
|`xdata`|A column vector of predictor data|
|`ydata`|A column vector of response data|
|`s,s1,s2`|The plot symbols, plot colors, and line type|
|`outliers`|A vector of outliers|
|`'ptype'`|The plot type. You can specify multiple plot types as a cell array of strings.|
|`conflev`|The confidence level|
|`h`|A vector of plot handles|

## Description
`plot(fresult)` plots the fit result object `fresult`. `fresult` is a fit result object generated by the [fit][mydoc_fit] function.

`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata)` plots the fit result object, the predictor data specified by `xdata`, and the response data specified by `ydata`.

`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,'s')` plots the predictor and response data using the color, symbol, and line type specified by the string `s`. Refer to the built-in `plot` function for color, symbol, and line type options.

`plot(fresult,'s1',xdata,ydata,'s2')` plots the fit result object using the color, symbol, and line type specified by the string `s1`, and plots the predictor and response data using the color, symbol, and line type specified by the string `s2`.

`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,outliers)` plots the outliers specified by `outliers` in a different color. `outliers` must be the same size as `xdata` and `ydata`. You identify data points as outliers with the [excludedata][mydoc_excludedata] function.

`plot(fresult,xdata,ydata,outliers,'s')` plots the outliers using the color, symbol, and line type specified by the string `s`.

`plot(...,'ptype1','ptype2',...)` plots the plot types specified by `ptype1, ptype2,...`. `ptype` can be a single plot type or multiple plot types, which you can specify as a cell array of strings. For one plot type or none (the default), plot behaves like the built-in `plot` command and draws into the current figure and axes. This way, you can use commands like `subplot` and hold to arrange plots in a figure window and to superimpose multiple fits into the same graph. For multiple plot types, `plot` uses `subplot` to create one set of axes per plot type. The supported plot types are given below.

|**Plot Type**|**Description**|
|fit|Plot the data and the fit (default)|
|predfunc|Plot the data and the fit with prediction bounds for the function|
|predobs|Plot the data and the fit with prediction bounds for a new observation|
|residuals|Plot the residuals. The fit corresponds to the zero line|
|stresiduals|Plot the standardized residuals. The fit corresponds to the zero line. Standardized residuals are the ordinary residuals divided by their standard deviation. Standardizing puts all residuals on a common scale (units of standard deviations) and makes it easier to quantify how far a point is from the fitted curve.|

`plot(...,'ptype1','ptype2',...,conflev)` plots prediction bounds with the confidence level specified by `conflev`. Specify a value between 0 and 1. The default value is 0.95 for 95% confidence levels.

`h = plot(...)` returns a vector of handles to `h`.

## Example
Create a noisy sine wave on the interval [-2$$\pi$$, 2$$\pi$$] and add two outliers with the value 2.

```
rand('state',2);
x = (-2*pi:0.1:2*pi)';
y = sin(x) + (rand(size(x))-0.5)*0.2;
y(ceil(length(x)*rand(2,1))) = 2;
```

Identify outliers that are outside the interval [-1.5, 1.5] using the range method.

```
outliers = excludedata(x,y,'range',[-1.5 1.5]);
```

Create a custom fit type, define fit options that exclude the outliers from the fit and define reasonable starting values, and fit the data.

```
ftype = fittype('a*sin(b*x)');
opts = fitoptions('Method','NonLinear','excl',outliers,...
'Start',[1 1]);
fit1 = fit(x,y,ftype,opts);
```

Plot the data, the fit to the data, and mark the outliers.

```
subplot(2,1,1)
plot(fit1,'k-',x,y,'b.',outliers,'ro');
```

Plot the residuals.

```
subplot(2,1,2)
plot(fit1,'k-',x,y,'b.','residuals');
```

{% include image.html file="plot1.gif" %}

Plot 99% confidence and prediction bounds for the function and for a new observation.

```
plot(fit1,'k-',x,y,'b.','predf','predo',0.99);
```

{% include image.html file="plot2.gif" %}

{% include links.html %}
